# 4.2.1 Configuration Management

There are multiple ways to configure Go:

* Admin interface in UI - These let you modify only specific section of the config
* Config XML tab in Administration section - This would let you modify the entire config at one place, however requires a deeper understanding of the xml
* Config API - If you do not like using the UI, config API is meant for you, however, this again deals with plain xml
* Changes made to config file through file system

Go configuration is saved to a file store `cruise-config.xml` and immaterial of the method chosen, changes would be save to the same file.

## 4.2.1.1 XSD & XML

`cruise-config.xml` conforms to the *cruise-config.xsd*. The xml is deserialized to `CruiseConfig` before being passed around in code, the same is then serialized at the time of save into the xml format.

A number of validations are run before a config change would be saved:
* XSD validation to ensure the schema is correct
* Validations performed by the class representation of xml elements (via the Validatable interface)
* Miscelleneous validations performed by implementors of GoConfigValidator

Since, the config file is a simple xml file placed on the file system, changes to this file can be made by editing this file. However, any changes to this file would go through the same validation process.

`config-api` and `config-server` modules deal with configuration management. While `config-api` is shared by both Go server and agent, `config-server` is exclusively referenced by Go server.

## 4.2.1.2 Schema Migration

Go being an ongoing project, there are bound to be changes to the config schema. However, as Go has been in production for a few years now, we need to ensure that all existing users can upgrade smoothly without any manual intervention. In order to achieve this, every change to the schema is assigned a *schemaVersion*, and a XSLT migration is written to ensure configuration upgrade happen in an automatic fashion.
During server upgrade, all the xslt migrations from the current version until latest would be executed in a sequential fashion.

To elaborate this further, lets say the current schemaVersion is *100* and we wish to edit an existing node in the xsd. Writing a schema migration for the same would involve a few steps:

1. Make a copy of the current cruise-config.xsd, and place it at `config/config-server/resources/schemas/100_cruise-config.xsd`

2. Make the relevant changes to the cruise-config.xsd file. Update the schemaVersion tag to '101'.

3. Write an xslt migration `config/config-server/resources/upgrades/101.xsl` to migrate a config on version 100 to version 101. 

4. Write an integration test to cover the above change.

## 4.2.1.3 Config Repository

Go configuration is version controlled in a local git repository, *config.git* hosted on the Server machine. Any changes to the config, either through file-system or through Go dashboard would be saved as a commit on this repo. As such all changes to the config can be audited or reverted if need be. 

All interactions to the repo is done using jgit, and the repo itself is managed by `ConfigRepository`. The commits made to this repository need to be in a certain format and hence manual changes/commits to this repo would cause errors in Go.

## 4.2.1.4 Config Merge

Building upon the config repository feature, Go makes use of *git merge* to support concurrent modifications to the config file. 
When a user makes a request to `get` the config, the computed MD5 of config is also sent as a part of the response, this MD5 would be submitted as post data when the user submits their change. If the submitted MD5 matches that of the latest config, the new change would be saved, of course if the validations pass.  
If the submitted MD5 doesnot match, a need to merge config arises. 
To elaborate on this, consider two users user1 and user2 trying to change the config concurrently. Both submit their changes with say 'md5-10'  as the MD5 value.
Lets say the latest commit on config.git is 'git-sha-10' with MD5 value 'md5-10'. Say user1's request was received first, and a new commit 'git-sha-11' with MD5 'md5-11' was made to the repo corresponding to user1's change.
Now, the request from user2 is received, since the MD5 from request does not match the latest MD5, a need to merge arises. 

By default Go works on master, however to deal with the above scenario, two new branches would be created. 
'branch-at-head' is at the same revision as master. 
'branch-at-revision' is at revision 'git-sha-10' (ie. the revision corresponding to the MD5 that user2 knows about). The changes made by user2 are committed to 'branch-at-revision'. 'branch-at-revision' will then be merged to 'branch-at-head'. 
If the merge is successful, the changes from the merged commit would be committed to master. 
If the merge fails, config save would not go through and an error is thrown to the user.

## 4.2.1.5 Config Diff

The MD5 of the config corresponding to each stage run is saved in the database. Users can hence view the changes that have been made to the config between the multiple runs of a given stage. Go would get the git SHA corresponding to a given MD5 value. Jgit gives the diff between the two revisions which could be seen on the stage details page.  
