# 4.2.4 Build Cause Production

In order to schedule a pipeline, Go requires information such as approver, material revisions/changes etc would cause the pipeline to trigger.
This information is called a *BuildCause* in Go. `BuildCauseProducerService` is responsible for computing build cause and performs a number of checks such as permissions, pipeline state(locked/paused) etc before trying to compute it.
There are three types of pipeline triggers in Go - automatic, manual and timer.

## Automatic:
There are a bunch of spring timers configured in Go, one of them is responsible for generating build cause for automatic pipelines (check *onTimer()* in `PipelineScheduler`). 
This goes through all the pipelines and adds them to `ScheduleCheckQueue` if they are not already being updated (i.e. 'BUSY').
`ScheduleCheckListener` picks up the message and calls `BuildCauseProducerService` to produce a build cause for the pipeline. 
If a build cause is generated, the pipeline would be added to `PipelineScheduleQueue`. If build cause cannot be produced, the pipeline will not be scheduled. 
In either case, `BuildCauseProducerService` posts a `ScheduleCheckCompletedMessage`. Upon receiving this message, `PipelineScheduler` marks the pipeline as 'IDLE' so that it would be picked up for check in the next cycle.
The same is done for each pipeline in the `ScheduleCheckQueue`.

## Manual:
Requests for manual builds are served by `PipelineStatusController` (check *triggerPipeline()*). Build cause generation in this case is also handled by `BuildCauseProducerService`.

## Timer
`TimerScheduler` handles triggering of pipelines which have timer settings configured. This uses a <a href="http://quartz-scheduler.org/overview" target="_blank">quartz scheduler</a> which takes care of triggering pipelines at the scheduled time. This again invokes `BuildCauseProducerService` to perform the required task.








