### 4.2.10 User Interface Architecture

As we mentioned we are using .html.erb(Rails) and .vm(Velocity) files for writing our markup and .SCSS for styling, so it will get converted into HTML and CSS by their respective frameworks. And we are using jQuery for API calling and event binding.

Most of the front-end files resides inside `rails/app` folder where we have folders called `views` and `vm`, which groups all the `.ERBs` and `.VMs` respectively.

Now let's understand, how the UI is architected in the Go. And understand how HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is organized.


#### 1. Markup : HTML

We've already talked about versioning part. So lets directly jump into file structure. HTML part is little complex, as we are using two different frameworks. Most of the files are inside `app/views` folder, where we have very modular structure and various type of markup files.

-   **Layout Files**: All the layout files are inside a folder called `views/layouts`, where we've kept all the common files getting used by the other pages. We've various layout files like `admin`, `agents`, `pipelines`, `value-stream-map` etc. 

-   **Shared Files**: The files which are getting used at more than one files or layouts, we've kept all of them in two shared folders. Both the frameworks, Rails and Velocity has their `shared` folder.  

-   **Other Files**: All the other files are grouped according to concepts or module.

Generally, we do use .erb almost everywhere, except few places like Job Details, Pipeline History, Login and Preference. We've .vm files for these other pages.


##### Spec tests for Markup

We've a spec testing framework integrated to validate or test rails markup. We've a stage configured for it, which will do automatic testing of markup. It will compare current result with the expected to find out any regression.

#### 2. Styling : CSS, SASS

As mentioned earlier, we are not going to write plain CSS anymore but SASS. So, the compilation and conversion of SASS to CSS will be taken care by a rails `sass` gem.  

As mentioned in UI tech stack chapter, we are restructuring our front-end CSS structure as well, here is what it will looks like eventually, we've started with moving few css rules from CSS files to their relative SCSS files.

```
base
  |--mixins.sass
  |--reset-g9.sass
  |--sprites.scss
  |--variables.scss
components
  |--alerts.scss
  |--labels-badges.scss
  |--messages.sass
  |--navbar.scss
  |--pagination.scss
  |--treenav.sass
  |--wizard.sass
gadgets
  |--breadcrumb.scss
  |--button-groups.scss
  |--docked-toolbar.scss
  |--dropdowns.scss
  |--forms.scss
  |--layouts.sass
  |--modals.scss
  |--popovers.scss
  |--progress-bars.scss
  |--scaffolding.scss
  |--tabs.sass
  |--tooltip.scss
global
  |--layout.scss
  |--reset.scss
  |--responsive.scss
  |--typography.scss
go-pages
  admin
      |--template.sass        
  |--agent.scss
  |--admin.scss
  |--admin/templates.scss
  |--vsm.scss
  |--history-panel.scss
  |--pipeline.scss
```

We've lots of CSS files for individual UI elements inside `stylesheets`. As well as we've a file called `application.css` inside `webapp/css` folder, where we've defined the application level style rules. 

All the CSS files inside different folders of `stylesheets` folder will be merged into a single file inside their respective folders. E.g. all the CSS files in `patterns` folder will be merged as `patterns.css` and will be there in patterns folder. And all the files inside `sass` folder will be eventually merged into a file called `css_sass.css` by a method written in helper file. 

**How to add a new SCSS file?**
After adding a .SCSS file inside any folder mentioned above, you will have to refer or include them in two different places `_css.html.erb` and `_header.vm` depends on where you want to use. 

**How to update changed SCSS file?**
You can run following command after modifying the content in any .scss file. `cd server/webapp/sass && sass --update .:../stylesheets/css_sass && cd ../../..`. Or you can add `--watch` attribute for live update.

#### 3. Scripting: JavaScript, jQuery and Prototype

All the JavaScript files are inside `webapp/javascripts` folder. We've already mentioned a list of 3rd party libraries that we are using. There is an application level file called `application.js` inside `webapp/javascripts`. 

To import JavaScript files you will need to define them in `_head.html.erb`. It has a flag inside called `use_compressed_js` which will decide whether it should merge all the file into `all.js` or not, the individual files listed after a tag `javascript_include_tag` is the sequence of how all the files will be included in the document. 

All the JS files will be merged into a single file called `all.js` and will be placed inside `compressed` folder whenever we create a package along with `d3.js`. Browsers without SVG support will not be served file `d3.js`, we are keeping it isolated, especially for IE8. 
