# 4.6 User Interface 

### 4.6.1 Markup and Styling : HTML & CSS

Usage of HTML and CSS is very obvious for any web app, because of browser requirement. We do use HTML too, to be very specific about version, our most of the layouts are still in XHTML1.0, we are gradually shifting them to HTML5. We all know its our responsibility to move web forward by using as much as latest tech we can use (obviously keeping browser support in mind :-))

Our markup resides inside .html.erb files, as we're using RoR framework in front-end, parsing and processing of .erb files into HTML will be taken by framework.

Our existing documents are styled with CSS2.1 specification (few places CSS3), we are also in process of restructuring our front-end CSS files and use CSS preprocessor instead of writing plain CSS (will be discussed in 4.6.3). With all these shifting in process, we are also trying to adopt CSS3 as much as we can. Also we are gradually merging icon files into one and planning to use CSS sprites concept to leverage rendering performance.

### 4.6.2 DOM interaction : JavaScript(JS), jQuery and Prototype

We all know that JS, jQuery and Prototype are the ways of adding dynamism in markup, initially the Go was just using Prototype as JavaScript API library to interact with DOM and registering events, later on it got replaced by jQuery, there are a lot of pieces where we still use Prototype (we may replaces all of them sooner or later with jQuery).

Prototype is almost out of the JS API competition now, apparently not maintained anymore too, so no point of continuing it in future code. So, we started adopting jQuery, and currently we've jQuery version 1.7.1.

### 4.6.3 CSS Preprocessor : SASS

CSS is very straightforward and plain, extension like SASS or LESS makes it really powerful, and we all know that Sass is the most mature, stable, and powerful professional grade CSS extension language in the world. We will not write plain CSS anymore, but will take help of the Sass. We are also rewriting our existing CSS files and moving them into SCSS files.

### 4.6.4 What else? Frameworks, Libraries or anything?

-   MicroContentPopup.js - Almost all the custom dropdowns in Go uses Micro Content Popup(MCP) library to make it work, this lib is also outdated and not maintained anymore, so moving to bootstarp dropdown.

-   D3.js - We're using D3.js to render arrows with SVG for Value Stream Map(VSM), a feature to modelling your workflow at Pipeline level (more details link).

-   Highchart.js - We're using Highchart lib to measure execution duration of particular Stage across time.

-   Bootstrap-dropdown.js - MCP is outdate now, we started using dropdown.js of bootstrap . 

-   jQueryUI.js - We're also using jQuery UI 1.7.3 to render our few components includes tabs and auto complete textbox.

