# 7.2 Test Infrastructure
Being advocates of continuous delivery and firm believers of TDD, we understand the power of automated testing. Automated tests are core to the development process of Go, and we strive to ensure that all production code is test covered.
Tests are written at multiple levels i.e.. unit, integration and functional. The rule of thumb is :
<ul>
<li>unit test any code that you write. This includes tests at all levels, ie. UI, controller, service, repository, domain, javascript etc.</li>
<li>write an integration test if the code being modified involves interaction of more than one class or layer.</li>
<li>functional tests cover mostly the happy path of any given feature. Since, these are much slower as compared to an unit or an integration test, try to cover any given scenario using integration test, unless the scenario requires UI/javascript interaction.</li>
</ul>

The tool that you use to write/run the test depends on what exactly needs to be tested. Rails code is tested using <a href="http://rspec.info/" target="_blank">RSpec</a>, java using <a href="http://junit.org/" target="_blank">JUnit</a>, javascript using <a href="https://github.com/pivotal/jsunit" target="_blank">JsUnit</a>, and functional tests using <a href="http://www.thoughtworks.com/products/twist-agile-testing" target="_blank">Twist</a>.

## 7.2.1 Rails specs using RSpec: 
Most of the Go UI is implemented using Rails. We use RSpec to test all of rails views, controllers, models and any other ruby code that we write. So far, rspec tests are mostly written at unit level, i.e. for a particular view, or controller etc. In a unit test, all interactions with other layers are mocked.  
You can find them under `server/webapp/WEB-INF/rails/spec` folder.

### 7.2.1.1 Execution:
These tests can be executed from command prompt as well individually from your editor. 
To run all rspec tests from commandline, execute the following:

`./b compile cruise:rails:spec ratchet=no test=no`

To run a subset, a pattern could be specified, for instance:

`./b compile cruise:rails:spec ratchet=no test=no spec_module=controllers/admin`

OR

`./b compile cruise:rails:spec ratchet=no test=no spec_module=views/[a-z]*`

Alternately, you could have a spec server running while you code, and you could run individual test as and when you make changes to any of the rails code. Please bear in mind that any changes to rails config or java code would require a restart of spec server for the changes to take effect.

`b cruise:rails:spec_server test=no` -- get this command and how to add it to intellij

## 7.2.2 Java testing using JUnit:  
You would see a *test* folder under a module, these usually have a *unit* and *integration* folder wherein the respective tests for the module are written.

### 7.2.2.1 Unit Tests: 
These tests use mocks and stubs to achieve isolation, they do not access the db or other layers and have minimal interaction with other classes. 

### 7.2.2.2 Integration Tests: 
These tests on the other hand cuts across all layers including read/write to db and file-system. Database used by integration tests is the same as the one DevelopmentServer uses, hence make sure you shutdown DevelopmentServer when running integration tests.

### 7.2.2.3 Execution:
To run these from command line, *cd* to the module directory and run the following command:

`mvn -Dtest=<TestClassName> test`

Any format for test specification that is supported by the Maven surefire plugin can be used in the above command.

## 7.2.3 Javascript testing using JsUnit Tests:
Standalone version of jsunit, placed under `server/jsunit`, is used to test javascripts. 

### 7.2.3.1 Execution
Command to run all tests:

`./b cruise:misc:jsunit`

Command to run individual test:

`./b cruise:misc:jsunit_server`

This launches a test server, the url for the same would be printed on the console. Hit this url from a browser window after updating the value of *testPage* param to the desired value and *run* test.

## 7.2.4 Acceptance & Regression tests using Twist:
Functional tests are end-to-end tests which interacts with the web application. 

## 7.2.5 Performance Tests

## 7.2.6  Test Parallelization


    ◦	7.2.1 Unit & Integration Tests 
Unit tests can mainly be classified into three categories:
1. junit tests - All java code needs to be tested by writing a junit test. Unit tests rely on using mocking frameworks.
2. rspec tests - M

3. jsunit tests - These are used to test javascripts
Functional tests are end-to-end tests which interacts with the web application. These tests are much slower as compared to a unit or an integration test, and as such we try to cover just the happy path of a feature using these. 

