# 6.1 Dashboard

In the context of Go, the landing page is often called the *dashboard*. The dashboard presents the user with a view of all the pipelines that he/she is authorized to view. The dashboard contains the below listed functional areas:

- Personalise
- Search
- Pipeline Group(s) & Pipeline(s)

## 6.1.1 Personalise

A user can blacklist the set of pipelines that he/she does not wish to view on the dashboard. This blacklisting is stored as a comma-separated list in the database under the table named **pipelineselections**. The table is tied to a user via the *userid* column.

```
                             +------------------------+
                             |   PIPELINESELECTIONS   |
                             |------------------------|
                             |                        |
                             |          id            |
                             |                        |
                             |   unselectedpipelines  |
                             |                        |
                             |       lastupdate       |
                             |                        |
                             |        userid          |
                             |                        |
                             +------------------------+
```

> In case of anonymous access, every user share the dashboard configuration and every personalise operation overwrites the previous value.

## 6.1.2 Search

Client side search is achieved using Javascript and DOM manipulation. The file named *jquery.listsearch.js* has the implementation.

## 6.1.3 Pipeline Group(s)

Pipeline groups were meant to provide logical grouping of pipelines that might share a similar purpose. With reference to domain, ```com.thoughtworks.go.config.PipelineConfigs``` represents the entity. Group information are not persisted in the database and its only purpose is to achive grouping among the different pipelines in the system. Apart from grouping, it also allows finer grained permission model (```com.thoughtworks.go.config.Authorization```) that authorizes access to the group.

You can read more about the dashboard layout in the [user docs](http://www.thoughtworks.com/products/docs/go/current/help/Pipelines_Dashboard_page.html).

## 6.1.4 Pipeline(s) and Ordering of pipeline instances

Pipelines have two representations with reference to Go. There is the pipeline configuration represented by  ```com.thoughtworks.go.config.PipelineConfig```, and an instance of a pipeline run represented by  ```com.thoughtworks.go.domain.Pipeline```.

Each pipeline run that shows up on the dashboard are ordered based on a certain logic. In Go, we use two distinct ordering methods:

- **Schedule order**: Chronological order in which pipelines are scheduled.
- **Natural order**: Chronological order of pipelines based on material modification time, i.e., based on your check-in time.

The *natural order* of a pipeline instance is persisted along with other pipeline instance details. In Go domain, ```com.thoughtworks.go.domain.Pipeline``` represent a pipeline instance. Natural order computation is performed by

```java
    private double calculateNaturalOrder() {
        double previous = 0.0;
        if (insertedAfter != null) {
            previous = insertedAfter.naturalOrder;
        }
        if (insertedBefore != null) {
            return (previous + insertedBefore.naturalOrder) / 2.0;
        } else {
            return previous + 1.0;
        }
    }
```