Go supports multiple SCM / pipeline dependencies. There are a lot of challenges that come up because of it. Dependency management is one of them. 

Consider the below case:

1. G is git repo containing code for the application
2. A is pipeline that runs unit tests & prepares the installer as an artifact
3. B is pipeline that runs integration tests - is triggered after A
4. C is pipeline that runs acceptance tests - is triggered after A (pulls artfiact from A)
5. D is pipeline that deploys the application which requires both B & C to be green. (pulls artfiact from A)


```
G -> A -> B -> D
     |         |
     + -> C ---+
```

Now consider a checkin is made to G say g1 which has flown through A (a1), B (b1), C (c1) & D (d1).

Now there is another commit g2 and A has gone green (a2). B & C are running (b2 & c2).

Now b2 goes green. There is a valid new revision for D to run with - b2 & c1 (since both are green). But if D goes ahead and deploys the application:

* what if c2 goes red (with failing tests)
* Or what if c2 goes green should D trigger again (for b2 & c2)? wouldn't it be wasteful deployment?

Another problem that D would face - C & D need to pull artifact from A for deployment. But if D triggered with b2 (which triggered off of a2) & c1 (which triggered off of a1) which version of A should be considered for the artifact fetch?

To solve these problems we wrote a feature in Go which does not trigger D until both B & C go green for a particular commit. Once both go green say b2 & c2. D has consistent revisions of A to fetch artifact from (a2). It will also reduce wastefull runs of D. i.e. D will not run twice & it will not run at all in case both the pipelines do not go green for a revision.
