There is a corner case where a pipeline can be both an upstream pipeline & a downstream pipeline for a particular pipeline. This can happen due to change in config where A was upstream of B when B ran after which A became downstream of B. This causes a cycle in VSM of A and causes the VSM rendering algorithm to go into an infinite loop. To avoid this we had to put in a cycle detection check before rendering the VSM.

```
    has_cycle()
        root_nodes = get all root nodes

        visited = new set
        for each root in root_nodes
            current_path = new set

            visited.add(root)
            current_path.add(root)

            has_cycle(root, visited, current_path)
        end
    end

    has_cycle(node, visited, current_path)
        if (visited.contains(node))
            return
        end

        if (current_path.contains(node))
            throw new CyclicDependencyException()
        end

        current_path.add(node)

        for each child in node.child_nodes
            has_cycle(child, visited, current_path))
        end

        current_path.remove(node)

        visited.add(node)
    end
```

Its possible that there are multiple instance of upstream / downstream pipeline for a pipeline. Ex:
```
G -> A -> B -> D
     |         |
     + -> C ---+
```
In the above setup B & C could have run off of different instances of A. Also there could be multiple instance of D which ran off different instances of B / C. These cases are handled by merging multiple instance of a pipeline into one box with a ..more.. link while the dependency link remaining the same. It could have happened that the different instances of pipeline had different material configuration. But this case is not handled.

The same remains the case with SCM. Ex:
```
 +-> A -> E
G         |
 +-> B ---+
```
It could have happened that A & B ran off of different revisions of G. We merge the revisions into one list & show it in SCM revisions popup.

In the setup some upstream / downstream pipeline could have been deleted or user might not have access to the pipeline. Which is shown as a grey box.
